In Python, it is possible to import text directly from a website.
And that's what I'm going to show you how to do in this video.
So to import text from a website, we need to use a library that is called requests.
So import requests.
And now yeah if you want you can do something like this.
But most people just refer to this library by the full name.
So import requests.
And now I specify a URL and let's see.
So here is a URL that I found.
It is from the Gutenberg Press website which is a fantastic website.
It's a real gem of humanity that they have lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of books, all freely
available online.
Okay, let me do 1727 dot txt.
Okay, so let me show you what this website looks like.
Okay.
There's a little typo in the URL.
I'll show you that when I switch back to Python.
Okay this is the Project Gutenberg and this is the Odyssey.
So by Homer, this is so we can scroll down.
This is just text and it is the entirety of the Odyssey by Homer.
So that's really fantastic.
You can just read the whole thing, you can download it, you can search for, you know, how often
does the word of appear in here?
Lots of times.
Uh, if you are not familiar with this website, gutenberg.org, then I highly recommend going to that
website after this video and just browsing around and seeing what is available on that website.
Nonetheless, I will use this website here just to download information.
And this is the this is the typo I made before.
Okay.
So this is a string variable.
This is not the website yet.
Now I'm going to write the Odyssey equals request dot.
Get up.
Okay.
So now this is going to go online and get all the information at this URL.
Download it and put it into this variable here called Odyssey.
So this is a particular type of variable Odyssey.
And it is of type request models.
So what can we do with this.
So if you have a class variable an object an instance of a class, and you want to know what are the
methods and attributes you can type dir.
Dir for directory and then in parentheses the name of the variable.
This gives you all the information about the methods that you can apply to this.
Now there's a lot of methods on this object.
And basically the only thing that we want is dot txt here.
So I will write odyssey dot text like this.
Okay.
And this is actually the entire text of that website.
Now it looks funny because there's some formatting codes in here.
Dash n is for newline r r r is for character return and so on.
So I can encase this in print and let's only print maybe the first 2000 characters.
Okay, so here we have the contents of that website, which for this particular example is this book,
The Odyssey.
Let's export this.
I will write actually I'll do this in a separate cell here.
So web text equals odyssey dot text.
And now I just want to know how long is this web text.
So this is 70,000 characters.
So there's 70,000 not just letters and numbers but also formatting characters like slash n r and so
on.
So 70,000.
And we might ask how many are unique?
How many unique characters are in this web text?
One of the ways to measure to find all the unique elements in a list is to use the function set.
So set is going to create a mathematical set.
And if you're unfamiliar with the concept of a mathematical set like from set theory, then it essentially
contains a list of all the unique elements in the list.
So here we see these are all of the unique characters in web text, some Greek characters in here,
it's going to be some punctuation marks, some formatting marks and all of the letters.
So let's see.
We can type Len of set.
And so this is pretty interesting already an interesting feature about language that I'll talk a lot
more about with tokenization and embedding.
But essentially this text has 700,000 characters in total.
And yet only 150 of them are actually unique.
Let's write this out using an F string.
So I will write print.
There are.
And then I'm just going to leave this as an empty curly bracket for now, and then fill it in later.
So there are something total characters in the text, blank of which are well, let me do it like this.
And blank.
Unique characters.
Okay, so now what do we want?
We want an F string and we want to know the total which is the length of the web text.
And then we want to know how many unique characters there are.
Great.
And so that looks like this.
Now this is a big number.
Uh, in uh, in in English it's common to put a comma every three numbers just to help people read it.
So it's a way to format that is a colon.
And now in the previous video I talked about using periods.
But in this case we don't want a period.
We want a comma.
So just a comma.
You don't need to include an F after that or any numbers any digits.
So now this says there are 710,323 total characters in the text and 149 unique characters.